Transcription for file s0j0f0

Metadata: {'original metadata': {'metadata': {'original metadata': 'METADATA PLACEHOLDER', 'buffer_file_path': 's0j0f0.mp3', 'duration_seconds': 1415.8889795918367}}, 'language': 'N/A for standard performance model'}

Transcript:  prologue, the pastor's daughter. She arrives quietly. No whaling sirens flashing lights or fail-anks of AIDS announces Angela Merkel's entrance into the plane-brick chapel in Potsdam, just outside Berlin. Her slightly hunched walk is purposeful. iPhone cameras light up as she passes pews, and she, this woman who hates cameras pointed at her, smiles indulgently. These are her people. Though the church is near the Capitol, this is a different tribe from Berlin's Sophisticates, with whom Merkel spends the majority of her working days. Her father had been pastor in a similarly plain parish church, and on this damp fall evening, the simple house of worship provides temporary refuge from the turbulence of her fourth and final term. Stolen days in her home province of Brandenburg, with rambles in the nearby woods, are becoming increasingly rare. She is too busy saving the world. Tonight, as Merkel arrives at the Oberlinkysia, surrounded by people who could pass for family, the 63-year-old Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany briefly allows herself to drop her card. She wears her uniform, jewel-colored jacket, dark green tonight, and black pants. Black flats planted firmly, Merkel settles into a straight-backed armchair in front of the altar, her fingertips touching lightly, a prayerful gesture, now so familiar to Germans that there's an emoji for it. Every morning of my childhood, the church bells told as they did again at six in the evening. I miss that, she tells her hushed audience, which appreciates this rare personal glimpse of their supremely private leader. For just a moment, the Chancellor's smile, not a politician's facsimile, erases the deep grooves carved into her features. In recent years, the world of Germany's first woman Chancellor has been roiled by social and political unrest, battered by the rising tide of worldwide populism. Merkel is vilified by right-wing extremists, now present in the German Parliament, the Bundestag, for the first time since World War II. The shock of an American populist in the White House heaping praise on Vladimir Putin, Merkel's nemesis in Moscow, is still fresh. On the first day of school, Merkel continues, offering a window into the complexity of growing up a pastor's child in atheist East Germany. Students were required to stand up and state their parents' profession. She recalled classmates advising her, just say driver, driver being a more proletarian-friendly profession than pastor, and in German, the two words sound nearly identical. Pastor, she answered the teacher. Merkel does not need to explain to this audience how dangerous candor could be in East Germany. Even children had to attempt to pass unnoticed by the all-seeing state. The Stasi's penetration of society was deeper and wider than that of its predecessor, the Gestapo. The Ministry for State Security had 173,000 employees, including informants, compared with 7,000 in the Third Reich. There was one informer for every 63 people. Of course, this child would shape my life, she says, perhaps inadvertently providing the key to who she is, how she has maintained power for an astonishing decade and a half, and why she remains a figure of mystery, even in her own country, and certainly to the world. Drawing the conversation back to the present, Pastor Matthias Fichmüller asks if the Chancellor reads the books that are written about her. Yes, but I don't recognize myself in them. The parish joins her laughter. I have made very sure that there are boundaries, so certain areas of my life are not open to the public, she says. Anything beyond her official role Merkel has made playing is none of the world's business. Such secrecy is now an article of faith within the Chancellor's entourage. There have been no leaks, no tell-all memoirs written by even former staff or confidants during Merkel's 16 years as Chancellor. Her exceptionally loyal aides are fiercely protective of the woman whom most of them have served for a decade and a half. You guys still all hear, U.S. President Barack Obama marveled, seeing Merkel's team during a 2016 trip to Berlin, virtually unchanged since he took office in 2008. After several decades, Germans are not tired of her image, her voice, her looming persona, because Merkel does not loom. Despite knowing little about their Chancellor's private life other than that she comes across as leading a life not so different from their own, Germans' thrice reelected her, each time by a comfortable margin. Once in a great while, they might see her dressed up for the Wagner festival in Byroit, Germany, but they're equally likely to see her doing her own grocery shopping. She imbibed the lesson of predecessors, such as Helmut Kohl, who paraded his wife and offspring as the perfect German family until his wife died by suicide and his sons grew estranged, or the Cold War hero Vili Brant, who was later revealed to be a depressive sex addict. At times, Merkel's insistence on privacy verges on paranoia. She keeps no journal, does not use email, and texts only briefly and when necessary. An associate's revelation of a seemingly trivial detail of her private life can terminate the relationship. One political ally was never allowed back into Merkel's confidence after releasing a forward email that read, Thanks for the suggestion, AM. In their attempts to pierce the enigma that is Angela Merkel, observers are sometimes reduced to absurd strategies. Take, for example, this analysis from Detroit, a respected German weekly, quote, while Merkel is standing talking in the Zade F German state television with a few others, she's turning the upper button of her jacket with her hand, not back and forth, but in a circle, in a steady rhythm. When the Chancellor is under a lot of pressure, she fiddles with her thumbnail using her index finger. Circles, on the other hand, mean silent concentration, close quote. During press conferences in foreign capitals, quote, the degree of her impatience with her host is evident from the frequency with which she glances at his stack of papers, close quote. Some visual clues are better grounded. Her cocked head and wide eyed look of disbelief when during her first encounter with President Donald Trump, he commented, quote, We have something in common, Angela. We were both wiretapped by Obama, close quote. Her epic eye rolls when asked at a press conference if she, quote, trusted the flamboyant Italian prime minister, Silvia Berla Schooni, or the same while Russia's Vladimir Putin mansplained to her. Or her eyes, soft with emotion, even shedding a tear or two, as she said goodbye to President Obama in 2016. However useful for her own political longevity, the extraordinary self-discipline that leads journalists to read into her every eye roll and nervous tick is also something of a shame, because to understand the present era we need to understand Angela Merkel. At a moment of global political and social rupture, no leader on the world stage has protected the post-World War II liberal democratic order as fiercely as she did, confronting aggressive authoritarians from Putin to Trump. She transformed Germany into the leader of Europe, not just an economic leader, but a moral one too, and into an immigrant nation by accepting one million Middle Eastern refugees. How was this triple outsider, an East German, a scientist, and a woman of that rare European country to never have a queen, able to achieve all this? How did a politician with rhetoric as plain as her appearance gain such power and longevity in this digital age with our ever-shrinking attention span? Intelligence and hard work are part of the explanation of course. In a country where grandparents still recall torchlight parades and crowds that roared a demagogues name in unison, Merkel's bland speaking style has often been an advantage. When the head of the World Trade Organization Pascalami once pleaded with Merkel for a bit more poetry in her speeches, Merkel shot back, I'm not a poet. Her calm analytical approach developed during her years studying physics allowed her to take a remarkably long-term view of governing. Quote, I think things through starting at the end from the desired outcome and work backward. What matters is what will be achieved in two years, not what we read in the papers tomorrow, she has said. Nor did she engage in the politics of insinuation or character assassination or take the bait of those who do. Quote, she just doesn't play their games, she knows good and well when Putin or Trump are lying to her, former German President Joachim Gaoke observed. Mostly she ignored their fabrications and pressed on with her own agenda. To achieve what Angela Merkel achieved, and for as long as she was at the pinnacle of power, she had to be both fierce and determined without those qualities being apparent. On many sensitive issues, Merkel succeeded by working sideways, indirectly and without calling attention to herself. The fact that she was a divorced Protestant from the East living with her male lover when she rose to lead the center-right Christian culturally conservative and mostly male Christian Democratic Union, the CDU of Germany, is testament to her skill at keeping the spotlight off her persona. With a very light touch, she transformed Germany into a far more liberal society. After appointing Gido Vestervella, the country's first openly gay foreign minister in 2009, she publicly praised his husband and their love story, yet without explicitly declaring her support for marriage equality. When Germany did vote on marriage equality eight years later, Merkel advised her conservative party to vote its conscience rather than toe the party line against marriage equality. Thus, without speeches or policy statements from the chancellor, marriage equality became the law of the land. She used the same subtle tactics to expand opportunities for women. When the head of the far-right alternative for Germany party, acronymed, Ah FD, observed the women assembled around Merkel and growled, are there no men left in the CDU party? The chancellor's close advisor, Eva Christiansen, whispered to her boss, we've won. Merkel merely smiled her enigmatic smile. She has repeatedly demonstrated how much a leader can get done quietly without boasting of her achievements. Part of her political genius comes in recognizing good ideas wherever they originate. She's fulfilled her rival party's programs on energy, on child care, on marriage equality, and women's rights, said Michael Nauman, the former Social Democratic Party, SPD, Culture Minister. This also serves as a clever way of neutralizing potential opponents. Angela is very skilled at appropriating any issue as soon as it gains traction, said Gao Kastil, handsome octogenarian who bears an uncanny resemblance to the late American actor James Gardner. That's why rival political parties are scared of entering into a governing coalition with her. Nor did fear of her appropriations prevent Merkel from forming coalitions with rival parties necessary to keep the CDU in power for 16 years, though at times as we shall see, it made the process painstaking. Another key to her political longevity is Merkel's insatiable curiosity. In her sixties, she still thrives on the new and the interesting people, facts, history, problems to solve, disputes to untangle, all still excite her. But apart from a love of challenge, what drives Angela Merkel? Ma-t, ma-t, ma-t, power, power, her mentor, Helmut Kohl once said. Merkel learned by observing powerful men and coal. Germany's Chancellor from 1990 to 1998 is one of the many male politicians who paid with their political lives for underestimating the woman he once called his Ma-tian, girl, with very few women role models, the 18th century Russian empress Catherine the Great and the French chemist Marie Curie among them. And no network to support her, Merkel had to invent herself as a politician. Asserting authority is something you must learn as a woman without power you cannot achieve much, Merkel has said. But the power she's cultivated is a very specific type. Hubris, Merkel's behavior suggests, is a male weakness. A woman in power has more urgent business to attend to than her ego. Sometimes, however, Merkel's muting her ego caused her to miss opportunities to connect with people on a more personal level. In 2009, with the Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk by her side, the Chancellor addressed a large group in Hamburg. Not once did Merkel mention that she was born in the city, or that her grandfather had been born in Poland. Most politicians would have seized such an opportunity to relate to their audience. In her final years in office, this instinct of hers to depersonalize her leadership was challenged by the rise of charismatic leaders worldwide. It's not that Angela Merkel lacks a robust ego. If she did, she would not have pursued a career in politics. When asked ones who her role model in life was, Merkel answered, myself as often as possible. She has redefined how a woman in power looks, sounds, and acts. And yet, the enigma of Angela Merkel only deepens upon closer examination. She has been the most powerful woman on the world stage. Yet, she hesitates to call herself a feminist. As supremely successful politician, she prefers the company of musicians, singers, actors, and writers. In an age of garless, strong men, she is quiet. She is not exactly who we think she is. In reality, Angela Merkel is far from the straight-laced, earnest image she often projects to the world. As a youth trapped behind me, I am Curtin. She said that her dream was to, quote, see the Rocky Mountains and drive around in a car listening to Bruce Springsteen. She's funny as hell as Philip Murphy, former US Ambassador to Germany and the current Governor of New Jersey. Despite decades on the world stage, Merkel has not lost her talent to be normal. As fellow East German, David Gill, Germany's Consul General to New York, explains, if you started your life where she did, behind the wall which we thought was permanent, you never get over that. Others may forget where she came from, but Angela Merkel does not. During her entire adult life, Merkel has been sustained by her near photographic memory, her trained scientific ability to break down problems to their opponent parts and her ravenous appetite for work. Add to these qualities the fact that she does not require much sleep, five hours tops, and an iron constitution. Late in learning to walk, Merkel was prone to falls and breaks during childhood. Yet in her 60s, through sheer willpower, she can still hike for six hours at a time. From these strengths, some natural, some nurtured, flows an unshakable confidence that often unnerves her fellow heads of state and fueled her astonishing longevity as Chancellor. Following her conversation with the pastor, Angela Merkel circulates through the small chapel, chatting easily with guests and waitstaff. Some of the servers, who are also members of this church community, have Down syndrome and other disabilities. Having grown up in the company of the disabled, who formed a vital part of her father's parish, the Chancellor seems completely at ease, cheerfully sampling canapés they have prepared. The key to Merkel's achievements, and indeed to who she is, lies in those beginnings. To survive the East German police state unbroken, as Angela Merkel did, is an accomplishment in itself and offers the key to her personal and political resilience. That half of her life produced the opposite of an idealist. Merkel does not believe that the arc of history bends toward justice. Instead, she is an action-driven optimist, with a sharp awareness of human frailty. During her final years as Chancellor, she made repeated references to civilizations that disappear, because they fail to safeguard their freedom and security. She referred to the fall of the Incan Empire in one speech, and more recently invoked the Peace of Augsburg of 1555, a tranquil interlude during Europe's bloody religious wars of the 16th and 17th centuries. After this period of peace, a new generation without memories of the misery of war plunged back into ruinous conflict, resulting in the deaths of a third of Germany's population. More than 75 years have passed since the end of World War II, but a question haunts Germany to this day. Can a country that produced Auschwitz and engineered the most ruthlessly efficient, systematic genocide in history ever be normal? Angela Merkel would likely answer it in the affirmative, but with qualifications. Yes, but only if Germany continues to shoulder its responsibility as the perpetrator of one of history's darkest chapters. Under her leadership, she has been determined to ensure it has. As a pastor's daughter, she believes in the quiet and persistent work of everyday salvation. This account, a human rather than a political portrait, sets out to answer how this pastor's daughter, this outsider, became the most powerful woman in the world. In writing this book, I have drawn on candid and often searching interviews Angela Merkel gave from 1990 when the 35-year-old physicist first entered politics until her 2005 election as Germany's first woman chancellor. I've complimented these interviews many never before published in English, with scores of personal conversations with her mentors, friends, and colleagues, which provide the flesh and blood of this narrative. Several people in her inner circle were willing to speak with me, circumventing the chancellor's extraordinary need for control, provided that their names were not cited directly. My own encounters with Angela Merkel dating from 2001, though not formal interviews, have also enhanced my familiarity and understanding of the chancellor. Having spent my own childhood in Hungary, an Eastern Bloc satellite, much like Merkel's native East Germany, my upbringing helped me understand her, especially her supreme public reticence, born of a childhood and youth spent in a police state, only when the entire false edifice of the Soviet Empire crumbled, did Merkel embark on her life as a politician. When that chance to serve and to do good as her Luther in Faith prescribed, presented itself, she seized it. As we shall see, however, her motives in doing so were as complex as the woman herself. She sought and has lived the intellectually challenging and adventurism life she missed living behind the wall for 35 years. Back in the chapel, Pastor Fichtenmüller leans toward the chancellor. Does it annoy you to still be referred to as the pastor's daughter at your age? He asks. The world's most powerful woman answers without hesitation. Not at all. That is who I am.
